README.md, before:

# Mail Reply Parser 📧🐍 

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python%203.x-blue.svg?style=flat-square&logo=Python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/) 
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.3-dc2f02.svg?style=flat-square&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/alfonsrv/mail-parser-reply)


### Multi-language email reply parsing for international environments 🌍

Mail clients handle reply formatting differently, making reliable parsing difficult. Thank god we have 
[standards](https://xkcd.com/927/).  This library splits *text-based* emails into separate replies based on common 
headers produced by different, multilingual clients usually indicating separation.

Replies can either present the whole mail message body, or strip headers, signatures and common disclaimers if required. 
Currently supported languages are: 

* Dutch (`nl`) 🇳🇱
* English (`en`) 🇬🇧
* French (`fr`) 🇫🇷
* German (`de`) 🇩🇪
* Italian (`it`) 🇮🇹
* Japanese (`ja`) 🇯🇵
* Polish (`pl`) 🇵🇱 
* Swedish (`sv`) 🇸🇪
* Czech (`cs`) 🇨🇿 (untested - contributions welcome!)
* Spanish (`es`) 🇪🇸 (untested - contributions welcome!)
* Korean (`ko`) 🇰🇷 (untested - contributions welcome!)
* Chinese (`zh`) 🇨🇳 (untested - contributions welcome!)


🏳️‍🌈 **Adding more languages is quite easy!**

This is an improved Python implementation of GitHub's Ruby-based [email_reply_parser](https://github.com/github/email_reply_parser/) 
and an adaptation of Zapier's [email-reply-parser](https://github.com/zapier/email-reply-parser) which both split the 
mails in fragments instead of distinct replies. They also only support English.


## ⭐ Features

⭐ Easy to implement  
⭐ Multilanguage Support  
⭐ Text-based mail parsing  
⭐ Detect headers, signatures and disclaimers  
⭐ Fully type annotated  
⭐ Easy-to-read code and well-tested  


## Overview 🔭

This library makes it easy to split an incoming mail into replies, making working with emails much more manageable
and easily providing the text content for each reply – with or without signatures, disclaimers and headers.

For example, it can turn the following email:

```
Awesome! I haven't had another problem with it.

Thanks,
alfonsrv

On Wed, Dec 20, 2023 at 13:37, RAUSYS <info@rausys.de> wrote:

> The good news is that I've found a much better query for lastLocation.
> It should run much faster now. Can you double-check?
```

Into just the replied text content:

```
Awesome! I haven't had another problem with it.
```


## Get started 👾

### Installation

```bash
pip install mail-parser-reply
```

### Parse Replies

```python
from mailparser_reply import EmailReplyParser

mail_body = 'foobar'; languages = ['en', 'de']
mail_message = EmailReplyParser(languages=languages).read(text=mail_body)
print(mail_message.replies)
```

*Or* get only the latest reply using:

```python
latest_reply = EmailReplyParser(languages=languages).parse_reply(text=mail_body)
```


### Parser API

```
EmailMessage.text:              Mail body
EmailMessage.languages:         Languages to use for parsing headers
EmailMessage.replies:           List of EmailReply; single parsed replies
EmailMessage.include_english:   Always include English language for parsing
EmailMessage.default_language:  Default language to use if language dictionary 
                                doesn't include any other language codes

EmailMessage.HEADER_REGEX:      RegEx for identifying headers, separating mails
EmailMessage.SIGNATURE_REGEX:   RegEx for identifying signatures
EmailMessage.DISCLAIMERS_REGEX: RegEx for identifying disclaimers

EmailMessage.read():             Parse EmailMessage.text to EmailReply which
                                 are then stored in EmailMessage.replies
```

```
EmailReply.content:              Unprocessed mail body with headers, signatures, disclaimers
EmailReply.body:                 Mail body without headers, signatures, disclaimers
EmailReply.full_body:            Mail body; just without headers

EmailReply.headers:              Identified Headers
EmailReply.signatures:           Identified Signatures
EmailReply.disclaimers:          Identified disclaimers
```



---

[![Buy me a Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/alfonsrv)

Commit message:

Add a keep_hyphen_lists option

README.md, after:

# Mail Reply Parser 📧🐍

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python%203.x-blue.svg?style=flat-square&logo=Python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.3-dc2f02.svg?style=flat-square&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/alfonsrv/mail-parser-reply)


### Multi-language email reply parsing for international environments 🌍

Mail clients handle reply formatting differently, making reliable parsing difficult. Thank god we have
[standards](https://xkcd.com/927/).  This library splits *text-based* emails into separate replies based on common
headers produced by different, multilingual clients usually indicating separation.

Replies can either present the whole mail message body, or strip headers, signatures and common disclaimers if required.
Currently supported languages are:

* Dutch (`nl`) 🇳🇱
* English (`en`) 🇬🇧
* French (`fr`) 🇫🇷
* German (`de`) 🇩🇪
* Italian (`it`) 🇮🇹
* Japanese (`ja`) 🇯🇵
* Polish (`pl`) 🇵🇱
* Swedish (`sv`) 🇸🇪
* Czech (`cs`) 🇨🇿 (untested - contributions welcome!)
* Spanish (`es`) 🇪🇸 (untested - contributions welcome!)
* Korean (`ko`) 🇰🇷 (untested - contributions welcome!)
* Chinese (`zh`) 🇨🇳 (untested - contributions welcome!)


🏳️‍🌈 **Adding more languages is quite easy!**

This is an improved Python implementation of GitHub's Ruby-based [email_reply_parser](https://github.com/github/email_reply_parser/)
and an adaptation of Zapier's [email-reply-parser](https://github.com/zapier/email-reply-parser) which both split the
mails in fragments instead of distinct replies. They also only support English.


## ⭐ Features

⭐ Easy to implement
⭐ Multilanguage Support
⭐ Text-based mail parsing
⭐ Detect headers, signatures and disclaimers
⭐ Fully type annotated
⭐ Easy-to-read code and well-tested


## Overview 🔭

This library makes it easy to split an incoming mail into replies, making working with emails much more manageable
and easily providing the text content for each reply – with or without signatures, disclaimers and headers.

For example, it can turn the following email:

```
Awesome! I haven't had another problem with it.

Thanks,
alfonsrv

On Wed, Dec 20, 2023 at 13:37, RAUSYS <info@rausys.de> wrote:

> The good news is that I've found a much better query for lastLocation.
> It should run much faster now. Can you double-check?
```

Into just the replied text content:

```
Awesome! I haven't had another problem with it.
```


## Get started 👾

### Installation

```bash
pip install mail-parser-reply
```

### Parse Replies

```python
from mailparser_reply import EmailReplyParser

mail_body = 'foobar'; languages = ['en', 'de']
mail_message = EmailReplyParser(languages=languages).read(text=mail_body)
print(mail_message.replies)
```

*Or* get only the latest reply using:

```python
latest_reply = EmailReplyParser(languages=languages).parse_reply(text=mail_body)
```


### Parser API

```
EmailMessage.text:              Mail body
EmailMessage.languages:         Languages to use for parsing headers
EmailMessage.replies:           List of EmailReply; single parsed replies
EmailMessage.include_english:   Always include English language for parsing
EmailMessage.keep_hyphen_lists: Don't capture hyphen marked lists as signatures
EmailMessage.default_language:  Default language to use if language dictionary
                                doesn't include any other language codes

EmailMessage.HEADER_REGEX:      RegEx for identifying headers, separating mails
EmailMessage.SIGNATURE_REGEX:   RegEx for identifying signatures
EmailMessage.DISCLAIMERS_REGEX: RegEx for identifying disclaimers

EmailMessage.read():             Parse EmailMessage.text to EmailReply which
                                 are then stored in EmailMessage.replies
```

```
EmailReply.content:              Unprocessed mail body with headers, signatures, disclaimers
EmailReply.body:                 Mail body without headers, signatures, disclaimers
EmailReply.full_body:            Mail body; just without headers

EmailReply.headers:              Identified Headers
EmailReply.signatures:           Identified Signatures
EmailReply.disclaimers:          Identified disclaimers
```



---

[![Buy me a Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/alfonsrv)
